Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about a plug in named discuss the disgust plug in replaces
the default WordPress commenting system and the new discuss commenting system allows visitors of our
website to leave comments using their existing social media accounts.
So meaning their Facebook or Twitter or their Google account and what's nice is it will automatically
pull in their profile photo like their avatar and also their name.
So this way if someone comes to our website and wants to leave a comment on one of our posts they don't
need to manually type in their name and their email address.
They are probably already logged into one of the social media networks like Facebook or Twitter or Google.
And now they're just one click away from leaving a comment as they themselves logged into that account.
I think this all make more sense when we see discuss in action.
So without further ado let me show you how to set up.
Discuss on your Web site.
OK so here's my web site.
And before we get started I do want to point out that the disgust plug in is completely optional.
You do not need to do this.
So if you're happy with the default WordPress commenting system that's great.
That's fantastic.
If that's the case you can actually just skip this lesson.
However if you are at all intrigued by the premise of discuss and you want your visitors to be able
to comment using their social media accounts I think it's worth giving discuss a try.
I'm not in any way affiliated with discuss but I am including it in this course because it's a very
very popular solution in the real world.
When I build websites for clients a lot of the times the client will request the discuss commenting
system.
It can really go a long way to help engage your audience.
Now having said that and having stressed that this is completely optional.
Let's get down to it.
So if you want to try out discuss the first step is to head over to your Wordpress admin dashboard in
your sidebar look for plugins.
Here it is.
Let's click on that.
We want to install a new plug in so you can either use this button right here that says add new or you
can use the add new link in the sidebar.
From this screen let's use this top right search field.
I will search for Discuss.
Here it is the first result as of this recording it's got about 200000 or more active installs.
So I will go ahead and click this install now button.
Once it's finished installing Now I can click this blue activate button and now from my main install
plug in screen here is discuss.
And right under it I can click on this configure link I see a message which reads.
You need to upgrade your database to continue.
So I will click this upgrade button and now the disgust plug in is asking for my username and password
now it is not asking for my wordpress username and password it's expecting me to have a discuss username
and password.
OK so at this point we've installed the plug in but now we need to go create an account with the disgust
service.
Right.
So just like you would create an account with Facebook or Pinterest or Twitter.
Let's go do that for Discuss.
So you can google for Discuss or you can just right click on this link right here that reads don't have
a disgust profile yet so I will.
Right click on that and click Open link in new tab.
And then if I jump over to that tab Here's the sign up page on the discuss Web site.
So just go ahead and enter your name your e-mail and pick a password for yourself and then click sign
up next.
You will be taken to this screen and from here we are interested in this second option.
It reads I want to install discuss on my site.
So go ahead and click that.
All right.
These first two fields look good.
The first field that we really need to customize is this Web site name field.
So you and I are going to have different Web site names the name of my wordpress Web site is something
along the lines of learning WordPress really you could type just about anything here.
It doesn't need to perfectly match your Wordpress title.
So make up a name for your web site here and then Category.
I'm just going to choose tech technology.
But feel free to choose whichever one makes the most sense for your particular website and then click
Create site from this screen.
I will just click this.
Got it.
Let's get started button down here.
OK.
Now disgust is asking me which platform my website uses.
And as we can see Wordpress is so popular that it's the first choice WordPress powers between a fifth
and a fourth of the entire web.
So that was probably a safe guess on discusses part but just go ahead and click on WordPress here.
Technically we didn't even need to click on WordPress because all this really does is give us a few
instructions and we've actually already completed a few of these.
So step one is just telling us to go into our WordPress admin and add the disgust plug in.
So we've already done that.
Step three is activate the plug in.
We've already done that.
So at this point let's jump back to the other tab and our web browser where we are still logged in as
the admin in wordpress.
If you can't remember how I got to this screen let me show you again.
So from plug ins in the sidebar that will show you a list of all of your installed plug ins.
And then under discussed click the configure link.
OK so we're back on the screen only now we actually do have a discuss username and password.
So go ahead and type those in and then click this next button.
Once you do that this next screen will show you a list of all of your discuss Web sites.
Now if you're brand new to discuss You're obviously only going to have the one discussed account Web
site that you just set up just a moment ago.
So go ahead and check the check box or radio box near that option and then click this balloon next option.
And congratulations you just set up discuss on your Wordpress Web site.
Let's take it for a test drive.
So if we switch over to the public front facing version of our website let's go to the trip to the Midwest
blog post and try to leave a comment.
So I will click on travel and then I will click on trip to the Midwest.
And now if I scroll down instead of the default WordPress comment area now we see this new area powered
by discuss.
Now I'm currently logged into disgust with my Bradd account.
The account that I created to add disgust to this website.
So it already has my photograph and I am free to leave a comment so I can say this is a test comment.
I love the post.
Amazing content.
And then I can click this button that reads post as Brad and there we see it.
So because I was already logged in as the Bradd admin discuss account that was very simple.
Now let's pretend that we were just a random stranger visitor on the Internet coming to our Web site
for the first time.
So let me open up a new web browser.
So in this window you can see that there's no black admin bar at the top.
So in this window I am neither signed into WordPress nor am I signed in to discuss.
So in this window let's try to leave a comment on the trip to the Midwest post.
So click on travel and then click on trip to the Midwest.
And if I scroll down here we can see the disgust comment area.
Here's the comment that I just left as the admin in the other browser window.
But if I want to leave a comment as a stranger I can just click into this field and begin typing my
content.
I love your blog.
This post is great.
OK now you will notice though that there's no submit button right here but disgust gives me a few options
so I can log in either with a discuss account a Facebook account or Twitter account or a Google account.
So for example if a visitor of our website was already logged into Facebook they could just click on
the Facebook icon and be good to go.
Or if a visitor of our website doesn't have an account with any of these networks yet they can click
on this option to sign up for a discuss account right here and now they can just click here and then
enter their name email and password and they will be good to go.
Now that's really all there is to discuss Plug-In.
It's pretty simple.
But before we bring this lesson to a close I do want to show you how you can moderate comments right.
So if someone leaves a malicious comment or if a spam comment makes its way through Here's what you
can do.
Back in the window where I am signed into WordPress as the admin you can see I have the black admin
bar at the top.
Let's jump over to the admin dashboard and in the sidebar let's click on comments and because we are
using the discussed plug in you'll notice that the default WordPress comment moderation screen is empty.
So instead now all we have is this blue button that reads go to discuss moderation.
So if you click on that it will open a new tab in your web browser and you might need to log in using
your discuss account user name and password.
But from this screen now you can moderate the comments on your Web site.
Now I don't currently have any comments but you can see up here that you can switch between viewing
the comments that are waiting to be approved so the pending comments and the comments that have been
approved the spam comments deleted or trashed comments and all comments.
This disgust comment moderation screen is very intuitive to use.
There's not much to say other than this is where you go to moderate your comments and that's actually
going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson we will change gears.
So we're done with comments.
And up next we will learn about something named widgets.
Widgets are an essential part of Wordpress and I will give you a hint or whet your appetite for the
next lesson.
Widgets are what will allow us to customize the sidebar column as well as other areas of our Web site.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling.
And I will see you in the next lesson.